#summary Nooklets -- installing and running

= About Nooklets =

Nooklets are this crazy idea I had that it just might be feasible to develop reasonable Nook applications entirely in HTML and Javascript. I've cooked up a small system to do just this,  and a sample Sudoku application to go with it. Within the limitations of the webkit version running on the Nook, it's not too shabby, here's a video of how it looks. 
It's all still fairly new, so please have fun with it and let me know what you think.

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Mqu5a243ik"/>

= Installing =
Please download [http://nookapps.googlecode.com/files/nooklets.zip the sample nooklets] and unzip it to the root of your internal SD card from your PC. When it's over, you should find a folder called `nooklets/` at the root of your internal SD card.

Next, download and install [http://nookapps.googlecode.com/files/Nooklet-debug.apk the Nooklet container apk] and add it to your launcher. If it all goes well, you should find three sample applications. Many thanks to [http://jf.andblogs.net/ JesusFreke] for letting me pinch his moniker of "Noodoku" for the sudoku application.

= Writing nooklets =

Nooklets are just a couple of HTML files -- one for the eink, and one for the touch area. Take a look at the `Hello` application to see how easy it is to create an app. The biggest issue is that the webkit on the Nook doesn't appear to correctly handle mouse down events, so 'active' html elements don't provide feedback they are being pressed. That said, the NookletSpecification might be useful, in lieu of any other documentation at the moment (sorry!)

Have fun!